The background of manoeuvre is one
of the key concepts in accounting
and finance, which you have probably
heard thousands of times.
But you may not understand
it well yet.
So we'll do a class on that.
First, in the previous class we
have seen how assets should
be financed according to whether
they are non-current or current.
But remember that non-current
assets, fixed assets, should
be financed with permanent
resources because they are
assets that are little liquid
and that will not generate the
treasury needed to meet
debt payments.
And in the case of current
assets, they can be financed
with current liabilities because
they are liquid assets that
generate treasury and allow
us to pay our short-
term debts.
By the way, if you don't understand
this I'm telling you right, you
should see the previous class again.
It is important.
Now, let's go to the subject.
Imagine we have such a company.
We have a business in which
non-current assets were financed
by permanent assets
and current assets
by current liabilities.
As you can see, the games are
exactly the same.
This situation, based on what we
have seen in the previous class,
is a correct situation.
That is, we are theoretically
fulfilling the precepts we have
seen.
We will have current
assets, they will generate
fair and sufficient liquidity
to meet short-term debt.
I want to be fair and fair because
there is no room for error.
There is no margin of error.
If any unforeseen event occurs,
we will not have liquidity
to meet short-term debt.
Back to the balance.
As we have seen, there is no room for error.
We have the fair and necessary
amount of current assets to
repay the debts.
How can we increase that
margin of manoeuvre?
How can we do this
to be more secure?
I will do this by pulling
the permanent resource.
If we increase the share of permanent
resources in this situation,
the risk is less because here
we already have a backdrop,
we have a margin of manoeuvre.
The liquidity that will generate
current assets is more than
enough to repay short-
term debt.
And as this part of permanent resources
grows, our margin will be
greater, our security
will be greater.
Do you understand?
We have gone from a situation like this,
where there was no basis for
manoeuvre, where we have the just
and necessary liquidity, to
situations where we have greater
security.
If we go to this situation,
what would it be?
The maximum security.
We have long-term debt.
We will have no problem.
I'm sure you already understand the
logic and the concept.
Now let's go to the definitions
and let's go to the formula.
We can explain it in two ways.
The fund of manoeuvre is the
surplus of the permanent
resources, what we have left
of the permanent resources, after
financing the fixed assets,
the non-current assets, and
which we use to finance
short-term operations.
Well, it looks a bit complicated.
Permanent resources, if we increase
them, we have a surplus
of permanent resources
over non-current assets,
which allows us to
finance current assets.
and Visto?
The formula would be this.
We are left with the total of permanent
resources, we are left with the non-
current assets and we are left with
the backdrop.
Well, there is another way to explain it.
There is another perspective that is
the same, but seen from a different perspective.
And in this case the fund of
manoeuvre would be equal to the amount
of current assets that we
finance with permanent resources.
Instead of starting the definition
with the passive, we start with the
asset, but it is the same.
What is the formula?
Current assets are less current passives.
Let us see it all with an example.
Let us think that we are
mounting an antique e-commerce,
that is, we are going to sell
the antique fund through the
internet.
We have a total asset worth
$50,000.
$30,000 are non-current assets,
they are fixed assets, in this
case it is the website.
And the non-current asset is the
commodity, it is the first batch
of antiques we will buy.
We have to fund all the stock.
How can we finance it?
Let us see.
Well, one option is that the
partners contribute the total
asset, the $50,000.
In this case, we will finance
with permanent resources, as
we see here, the whole.
So what is the background of manoeuvre?
The current fund is $20,000,
which is equal to the entire
current asset.
Let us now look at an example.
We are planning to build
an antique e-commerce.
The business is very simple, we
will sell antiques through the
internet.
The total asset is $50,000.
We have a website worth $30,
000, it's a non-current asset.
And we have goods, which is the
first package of antiques we will
buy for a value of 20,000.
Let us now see how to finance
ourselves and according to how, from
our financial structure, we will
calculate the fund of manoeuvre.
The first option.
Options with less risk.
The partners donated $50,000.
Obviously a business that has no
debt, because it has no risk.
At least, there is no
financial risk.
In this case, the maneuver
fund has a sum of $20,000.
Option of 2.
The partners don't have $50,
000, we have $10,000,
but we have a long-term
loan worth $40,000.
The fund remains the
same, remaining $20,000.
If we drop the permanent
assets minus the non-current
assets, we get an amount
of $20,000.
Here the risk is also very
low, because we have permanent
resources to finance
the entire asset.
We see you in a third case.
There is no ground for manoeuvre.
The partners have $10,000,
as we saw, and we get debt.
However, we do not get the
full long-term debt, as
we have seen in the previous
case, but we have a long-
term debt worth $20,000,
but during the first 12 months
we will have to face the
repayment of these
20,000.
What happens is that we
have goods worth $20,
000 here, so we
are in a situation
where there is no risk.
The problem is that there is no ground for manoeuvre.
And we go to the last case, in the
case of the negative fund of manoeuvre.
It turns out that banks do
not grant long-term financing,
so we have to resort to
other mechanisms.
And during the first year we
will have to pay payments
worth $40,000.
As you can see here, I put it in red because
the background of manoeuvre is negative.
We are in a risky situation,
in theory.
Why is?
I think we have funded the
website, these 30,000 euros.
We have largely funded
them with a loan we have to
repay within 12 months, which
is theoretically incorrect.
I hope you understand the functioning
of the manoeuvre fund
and the analysis that we
can do from it.
I also tell you that interpretation
is not so simple, it is not
mathematical.
In this case 2 plus 2 are not
4 because there may be other
variables that influence.
I will just give it as an
example.
If during the first year we are
able to buy and sell these goods
worth 20,000 euros, buy and sell
and make them rot many times
in 12 months, it is possible
that we are able to generate
the liquidity needed
to return these short-
term debts.
It is an example of why the background
of manoeuvre we cannot take
conclusions literally or mathematically.
Subscribe to the channel!